# Thyroid-Cancer-Diagnosis

--Author
--Vashatkar

Thyroid cancer is a type of cancer that starts in the thyroid gland. Cancer starts when cells begin to grow out of control. The thyroid gland makes hormones that help regulate your metabolism, heart rate, blood pressure, and body temperature. Tumors found in thyroid cancer are commonly presented as thyroid nodules, but not all thyroid nodules are cancerous. Currently, a technique known as fine-needle aspiration (FNA) is used to determine whether a thyroid nodule is malignant or benign. Even though over 95% of the total cases end up being benign, many more are diagnosed as malignant or ‘indeterminate’, i.e. unclear diagnosis, after performing FNA.
Patients with indeterminate diagnoses undergo diagnostic surgery to remove the tumor or benign thyroid lesion; only about 30% are subsequently found to be malignant post operation. This kind of surgery, which is not necessary for all patients, exposes them to risk of serious surgical complications and causes patients to have levothyroxine replacement therapy for life. Thus, improvement of diagnostic evaluation for patients with indeterminate cytologic findings is critically needed. A recent study has shown the potential for diagnosing thyroid cancer using gene expression data. The model (LSVM used in that research) has a high sensitivity when classifying malignant samples, but benign samples are not classified with high accuracy. We attempt to increase the predictive accuracy both for malignant and benign samples by applying feature selection methods to machine learning algorithms.
